Heavensward Cleared!!!!My soitatic have finally cleared every single Heavensward trials and raids. We started by using guide but in the middle we tried to do the fight blinds as much as we can, that is something that will be normalized in Stormblood
So now that I finished all our run highlights on youtube I think it's time to make a tier list for heavensward in 2024.
Let's start with trial,
Our first fight is with Bismark, is it a whale is it a dragon? who knows. Honestly this is the worse trial in Heavensward I'm glad square enix stop using this fight design template. The fight is 90% adds fights and you only hit bismark when you are able to bind him using dragonkiller. It's not really my taste, I'm gonna put this fight on D tier, I would not reclear or redo the fight.

Next is Ravannah, a beetle... dragon..., this fight is a pretty good entry, unlike bismark,  the fight have some interesting mechanic such as parry system and the introduction to limit cut mechanic. yes this is the beginning before limit cut was a thing where you can see the amount of sword as the target order. overall it's an okay fight, there's a lot of dodging mechanic but there's not a lot of puzzle to be solved, I'm going to put this fight on the C tier.

Moving on to Thordan, Now This is where square enix stepped up their fight design in my opinion. Each phases is packed with different mechanic albeit they are very basic spread, stack, don't get hit. but I believe this is the first fight where it's tied heavily to the story creating a very cinematic experience. I am putting this fight on A tier for the reason that I will explain later.

Nidhogg!!!!, This fight is our first wall on trial. I feel like this fight just have a better design than thordan with the chain mech being one of my favorite, the last phase was also no joke with movement needing to be tighter compare to thordan. it's really hard to recover as well if someone was dead with the multi hit stack happening at the final phase. overall this is my favorite fight in all heavensward and that is why this is S tier for me and this is also why I can't put thordan to S. I would redo and reclear the fight whenever people want to.

Moving to Sephiroth, the six arm god. Another solid fight in my opinion, I really like how the boss have 3 phases and final phase have a pretty tight movement check needing you to know where to go ahead of time to prepare yourself. We could've cleared this fight in 1 day but it looked like people was tired so instead we 1 pulled it the next day. But overall I think this is a lot of fun to prog together with my group, a lot of funny moment was created. so with that I will put it in A tier, this fight is very close to savage difficulty in my opinion.

2 more, starting with Sophia, there's only 1 mechanic that define sophia, the scale and how the arena tilted. While I think that's pretty neat but I can see how this fight is frustrating if it was current because of how easy it is for people to die if they are not paying attention. It might be because we were not doing this fight blind so it felt underwhelming for me, the way we clear it is also not very clean. So for now I'm going to put this in B tier because I do think this fight is better than Ravanna but not as good as the other fights.

Lastly Zurvan, Honestly the only mech that stood out in my mind is the wave cannon mech with the tether and how you need to grab tower with the same color as your tether. We didn't come up with a strat for it, we mainly just adjusting with each other since it seems like it assigned 2 random people. but other than that mechanic, everything else is kinda meh for me. so I will put this fight on C tier I think it can go either B or C, very eh fight.

Moving to Raids!
Let's start with A1S, I believe this is the first fight that introduce 2 bosses where you have to balance their HP. The original was from T11 with the adds but it's not a boss. it's also interesting that enmity also copies when the boss clone itself, something that I didn't know. Overall though there's not much to say the only interesting mech is where you have to kite the small adds and kill it in the missle spot to minimize it. I think it's an ok introduction to the tier I'll put it on B for basic.

A2S, Dude I thought we're done with adds fight in raid series following Coils. But nooooo, we have another adds fight, I'm not a fan of it I'm glad they remove it moving forward. D tier.

A3S, The raid that supposedly destroy the raiding scene back then, I don't know the history of living liquid if people know what changes they make to the boss let me know in the comment. For us though I don't feel like the fight is that difficult, the final phase have a lot of repeating mech so it's not hard for us to keep using the same strat that were using since phase 1. I think the highlight is the Hand phase and trying to figure out that it was the distance that's been killing us. Oh this is when the group also start shifting to approach the fight blind, it was not perfect but we're learning. The tornado phase is kinda meh, it might be because we have so much damage so we're just plow through it. I can see how this fight can be as difficult as M3S when it was current with people dying to damage/messing up mech. I'm going to put this fight in A tier.

A4S, This fight hold special place in my heart, on top of being blind we try to clear this fight without using the cheese. Trying to figure out how to keep the nisi buff around and how to easily resolve the pentacle is really fun, sadly we have more than enough damage to skip the 2nd pentacle so we don't have to worry about keeping the nisi after first pentacle. The only mech that I'm not a fan off is the abduction mechanic I don't see the point of it but other than that the fight is really solid. I also figure out the cheese mid pull so I was kinda proud of that. S tier for me.

A5S, This is one of the most fun fight in all alexander, it felt goofy with all the adds name and the mechanic having you transforming to gorilla or bird and having to turn invisible when you get chased by the adds. it was honestly a good time overall, the fight is also not as easy as A1S with some puzzle mech which require the correct buff to be applied. Unfortunately we skp the adds phase completely so we didn't really experience the full fight. regardless, I think this is a A tier for me.

A6S, I don't know how this fight was back when it was current but holy shit I feel like this is harder then it's supposed to as the 2nd fight of the tier. The first 2 boss was okay but vortexer, damnnnn managing the water and lightning stack while also getting knocked is a nightmare to handle. Not to mention you have to remove 1 of the water pilar with fire but if you get too close to it you get damage and knocked back on top of that the fact that if you die you go all the way back to the first boss, all of this mech is a tutorial for the later fight of the tier. Overall I do like the fight but not my favorite, I'm okay with putting this on A tier.

// the first boss is kinda ok with having invisible mine that have to be detonated and the clone where they dash around and tether. speaking of tether I think the mechanic is pretty confusing since tether is usually a distance based mechanic but in this fight it's a look mechanic. 2nd boss is also really fun with the tank buster vs party stack mechanic and the orbs as well, I feel like 2nd boss is mostly healing check with how much damage that is coming out. 3

A7S, I feel like A7S is easier than A6S, there're only so much that you can do to resolve the mech making it very intuitive on how to solve the mechanic. But I do like the jail mechanic and how every role have their own responsiblity, another mech that is noteworthy is the big ass ball and the cat forcing the tank to move the boss around while dodging them. Overall B tier fight for me, I really enjoyed it.

A8S, Some people call hardest fight in all Alexander savage, some call it mini ultimate due to how long the fight is and how many phases there are. I really love how they uses mechanic from the previous fight which is A6S and mixed them together into this big puzzle where the players have to figure out how to resolve. I can imagine back then, when all the robot combine together to make brute justice that would be the sickest thing, and not to mention the music transition is peak. holy, I just love this fight, the amount of consistency that require due to the duration is insane. It's easily S tier for me.

A9S, Dude I don't know how to feel after clearing A8S, going from that high to another introduction fight is weird, Most of the mechanic is the adds management where you have to kill the add in the correct spot, other than that it's just dodge mechanic. Definitely not my favorite fight, it's very meh to me, C Tier. I wonder if there is more mech, since we might just skip due to stat squish.

A10S, This fight is a lot better compare to A9S in my opinion, first of all I love the arena, the fact that there are hazard that you have to pay attention to at all time on top of that enemy can trigger it as well is super cool, I don't think there's any other fight that have this mechanic I wish they add more interesting arena like this. I can't believe they added the stillness mechanic again, B tier for me.

A11S, I remember doing the normal fight for the first time and jamming to the soundtrack, it's just that good. This is THE figth that introduced limit cut the mechanic that we all know and love today, all the odd number have their own mechanic and the even number have their own mechanic. Another thing that they added is the QTE system midfight, which I'm not a fan of for this figth but I think it's really cool in future fights. I do like the final Phase where you have to pay attention to the pillar and not hit it so it doesn't break the floor I thought that is very cool. And I think this is also where they introduce Photon a mechanic where it puts everyone HP to 1 and does raidwide right after, which is a repeating theme in the future fights. Because of those reason I will put this fight on A tier.

A12, The finale where we fight alexander prime, Does it hold the grandoir just like how Bahamut from T13 did? I think it did, the boss attack hits really hard requiring attention for healers, there are adds which gain damage up overtime creating a semi dps check, and tank buster galor. On top of that the timestop mechanic is very fun to solve, radiant sacrament cause players to learn how to move effectively, and dropping crystal which is used to identify where the boss teleports to, we didn't see much of the final phase due to stat squish but it's still a very enjoyable fight. I will put this fight on S tier. 
 

And yeah I think these two are my tier list for heavensward with Nidhogg and A4S being my favorite fights respectively, Let me know which one you disagree with, which one you think should be higher or lower. And yeah if you are here thanks for watching and 
